Max for #0 is sample: 657 with 0.8070927869054605
text: LONDON, England (CNN) -- The Screening Room went to the Theatre Royal in Drury Lane in the heart of London's West End, where a spectacular musical version of "The Lord of The Rings" is enjoying a successful run, to meet Indian composer A. R. Rahman, whose blend of Asian culture with rock and Western classical styles has revolutionized the Indian film industry. And now Rahman is about to make his mark in Hollywood. A. R. Rahman, interviewed by CNN's Screening Room . Virtually unknown in Europe and the U.S., Rahman has sold 200 million albums worldwide -- more than the Beatles -- and is worshipped throughout much of Asia, where he's known as the Mozart of Madras. Now he has added a Hollywood film score to his vast repertoire of movie music. Rahman explained to CNN what he thinks makes great movie music. "A great soundtrack is like 'Laura"s theme', the 'Love Story' theme, 'Chariots of Fire' and all those sorts of things, where it stood by itself," he said. But recently, he's noticed a changing mood. "Now it is becoming too abstract and more ambient and more... I don't know, soundscape-ish, more than melody. People are afraid of melody: 'Oh, that melody is distracting my scene,' it is becoming like that." And that brings fresh challenges for the makers of film music. "Now the challenges of the composer are much more," he told CNN. "One needs to know of recording, production, it is not enough to compose a great theme and [know] how it can intertwine with the movie. And with Indian film it is an even greater challenge, because we need to be like Michael Jackson, John Williams, Hans Zimmer and an Indian folk composer all put together. So they expect finesse and they expect versatility." Rahman's compositions are versatile enough to be used by both Bollywood and Hollywood, a case in point being his music for the Hindi film "Dil Se," which was used almost a decade later by Spike Lee for "Inside Man." But for Rahman, the process to create film music is being challenged by increasingly crammed movie schedules. "There used to be a time where the director and the composer would work together," he explained. "They would develop themes and the director would shoot a scene, but now the world's so fast that people are finishing the movie even before going to a composer." As well as writing songs and scores, Rahman has featured in many Bollywood films singing the songs which are mimed by the acting superstars. He recently completed a sell-out tour of the U.S. performing highlights from his songbook to devoted fans. He explained to CNN how playback singing is a normal part of Indian film music. "Well, until I worked in 'Bombay Dreams' six or seven years back, I never realized that it is not cool to have playback singing. Until then, it was the story of Indian films where somebody else lip synchs and somebody else sings." And Rahman has been converted to the Western model, where those singing on-screen usually provide the vocals themselves. "In my future projects I would rather have a star who sings," he said. Director Shekhar Kapur recruited Rahman and fellow composer Craig Armstrong to provide the score for Cate Blanchett's sequel to "Elizabeth," "The Golden Age," which premieres at Toronto Film Festival in September this year. Kapur described the thrill of working with two such different -- and complementary -- composers. He told CNN, "Here are two totally different cultures. Craig Armstrong is strings and heart, the skies, choir, angels and devils, and A. r. is modern, restless music." "Just to get them together was very interesting for me. To sit there and see both of them jamming together, that was fascinating. They wouldn't talk, they would jam, and out of the jamming came the music. It was great." Rahman is still getting used to his new-found status as darling of both East and West -- and it leads to a somewhat chaotic lifestyle, as he explained. "It is terrifying sometimes. I suddenly wake up in Scotland doing music for 'Golden Age,' and suddenly wake up doing an Indian superstar film, but I think after all these years I am probably getting a balance." E-mail to a friend .


Max for #1 is sample: 133 with 0.9665118691237833
text: (CNN) -- The credit crisis has transformed the global financial landscape, bankrupting established names and prompting unprecedented interventions by governments and central banks to save others from collapse as they buckle under the weight of "toxic debts."  This timeline charts the key moments in that process. 2007 Feb. 7: HSBC announces losses linked to U.S. subprime mortgages. May 17: Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said growing number of mortgage defaults will not seriously harm the U.S. economy. A trader at the New York stock exchange reacts to the fall of global stock markets . June: Two Bear Stearns-run hedge funds with large holdings of subprime mortgages run into large losses and are forced to dump assets. The trouble spreads to major Wall Street firms such as Merrill Lynch, JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup and Goldman Sachs which had loaned the firms money. Aug.: French bank BNP Paribas freezes withdrawals in three investment funds. Sept.: Crisis-hit UK bank Northern Rock admits financial difficulties as it asks Bank of England for assistance. Share prices fall as customers queue up to withdraw their money. Oct. 1: Swiss bank UBS announces losses liked to U.S. subprime mortgages. Oct. 5: Investment bank Merrill Lynch reports losses of $5.5 billion. Oct. 15: Cititgroup announces $6.5 billion third quarter losses. Oct. 24: Merrill Lynch announces losses to be over $8 billion. 2008 Jan: Swiss bank UBS announces fourth quarter losses at $14 billion. Jan. 11: Bank of America pays $4 billion for Countryside Financial. Jan. 15: Citigroup reports $18.1 billion loss in fourth quarter. Jan. 17: Merrill Lynch reports $11.5 billion loss in fourth quarter. Washington Mutual posts losses. Feb. 13: UK bank Northern Rock is nationalized. March: UK hedge fund Peloton Partners and U.S. fund Carlyle Capital fail. March 16: Bear Stearns, the U.S.'s fifth largest investment bank, collapses and is taken over by JP Morgan. April 1: German Deutsche Bank credit losses of $3.9 billion in first quarter. April 13: U.S. bank Wachovia Corp. reports big loss for quarter. May 12: HSBC writes off $3.2 billion in the first quarter linked to exposure to the U.S. subprime market. July 22: WaMu reports $3.3 billion loss for second quarter. Aug. 31: German Commerzbank AG takes over Dresdner Kleinwort investment bank. Sept 7: Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac effectively nationalized by the U.S. Treasury which places them into "conservatorship." Sept. 9: Lehman Brothers shares plummet to lowest level on Wall Street in more than a decade. Sept 14: Lehman Brothers files for bankruptcy. Stock markets plummet; Central banks inject billions of dollars into money markets. Bank of America agrees to buy Merrill Lynch. Sept. 16: AIG Corp, the world's biggest insurer, bailed out by the U.S. Federal Reserve. Morgan Stanley and Wachovia enter merger talks. Sept. 17: Halifax Bank of Scotland (HBOS) to merge with UK bank Lloyds TSB in an emergency rescue plan. Sept. 18: Federal Bank and other central banks inject billions into global markets to help ease the crunch. Sept. 22: Japan's Nomura Holdings buys Lehman's Asian operations for up to $525 million. Sept. 25: WaMu sold to JP Morgan. Sept. 27: HSBC announces 1,100 job cuts worldwide. Sept. 29: - U.S. Congress rejects $700 billion plan to bail out the U.S. financial system. - UK's Bradford & Bingley nationalized. Santander to buy deposits for $38.2bn  - German bank Hypo Real Estate to be bailed out by banks and government. - Citigroup, the world's largest bank, says it will buy Wachovia. - Belgian giant Fortis is bailed out by Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg. - Royal Bank of Scotland shares lose a fifth of their value. - Iceland part-nationalizes Glitnir, one of its biggest banks. Sept 30: - Belgian bank Dexia bailed out by France, Belgium and Luxembourg. - Swiss bank UBS announces small profit in third quarter. - Irish government guarantees safety of bonds, debts and deposits. Oct 1: US Senate passes amended $700 billion bail-out plan. Oct 3: - US Congress passes $700 billion bail-out, President Bush signs it into law. - Swiss bank UBS to cut 2000 jobs. - Dutch government nationalizes banking and insurance activities of Fortis. Oct 4-6: - Proposed Hypo Real Estate bailout collapses. - Chancellor Angela Merkel announces new plan for Hypo bailout worth $69bn.  - Merkel also announces guarantee of deposits in German banks. - UK raises limit on guaranteed bank deposits from £35,000- £50,000. - EU leaders meet in Paris for emergency summit to discuss financial crisis. - Battle rages between Citigroup and Wells Fargo over purchase of Wachovia. - French bank BNP Paribas takes 75% stake in Fortis . Oct 6: - Danish government announces plan to guarantee bank deposits - Wells Fargo and Citigroup agree to legal standstill in battle for Wachovia. - Bank of America reports 68% profit drop, stock sale to raise $10bn. Oct 7:  Icelandic bank Landsbanki nationalized; Icesave, Landbanki's internet bank, freezes UK customers' accounts. Oct 8: - UK Treasury freezes assets of Landsbanki in the UK; threatens legal action  - UK Treasury announces £500 billion bank rescue package. - U.S., UK, China, Canada, Sweden, Switzerland and ECB cut interest rates. - IMF forecasts "Major global downturn". Oct 9:  Iceland nationalizes its biggest bank Kaupthing. Oct 10: Black Friday - G7 finance ministers meet in Washington and issue a five-point plan. - Nikkei falls almost 10%, biggest drop in 20 years. - FTSE falls more than 10%, closes at 8.85%; worst daily fall since 1987. - Oil prices fall to $80 a barrel. - Dow crashes nearly 700 points before regaining some lost ground. - Icelandic bank Kaupthing is nationalized. Oct 11- 12: - The Fed rubberstamps Wachovia takeover by Wells Fargo. - 15 EU leaders meet in Paris for emergency summit on crisis.  - Gordon Brown urges them to adopt similar measures to UK bank rescue plan. - Leaders agree to guarantee loans between banks until end of 2009. - Germany, France and Italy to announce individual plans Monday. - Australia agrees to guarantee deposits for next 3 years. - New Zealand guarantees bank deposits for 2 years. Oct 13: - EU stock markets bounce back in response to EU leaders' bailout announcements. - UK bails out 3 banks: RBS, HBOS and Lloyds TSB at cost of $63 billion. - Bank of England loans $174 million to Icelandic bank Landsbanki to help repay UK depositors. Oct 14: - Iceland in talks with Russia to negotiate emergency loan of $5.44 billion after bank collapses. - U.S. follows UK lead by part-nationalizing banks. Oct 15: - European and Asian stock markets fall after initial upswing. - Southeast Asian nations agree to start fund to provide financial support to countries in crisis; World Bank commits $10 billion to the planned fund. - Russian stock market posts losses as RTS Index falls below 800 points.  Oct 16: - Global markets fall on fears of global slowdown. - Citigroup delays merger of its Japanese brokerage units due to costs involved. - Swiss government bails out UBS with $59.2 billion. - Credit Suisse posts 1.3 billion-franc third quarter loss; raises $8.7 billion from investors. - Hungarian central bank gets cash injection from ECB to value of $6.7 billion.  - EU leaders at Brussels summit call for complete overhaul of international financial system.


Max for #2 is sample: 64 with 0.9655711099949233
text: (CNN) -- Concern over the spread of the Ebola virus has caused the cancellation of an African Cup of Nations football match. The Seychelles was due to host Sierra Leone in a qualifying game on Saturday, but the tiny island nation's ministries of health and immigration prevented the visiting players from entering the country. At least 525 cases of Ebola have been reported in Sierra Leone since March, 224 of which have been fatal. Seychelles, which was trailing 2-0 after losing the away leg of the second-round qualifier in Sierra Leone on July 19, has forfeited both the tie and its hopes of reaching next year's tournament finals. Sierra Leone players were on Friday reportedly prevented from boarding a plane at Kenya's Nairobi Airport that would have taken them to the Seychelles. Seychelles Football Federation president Elvis Chetty told CNN that there was little choice but to follow government advice and forfeit the match, which was to be held in the capital Victoria. "After being advised by the ministry of health to postpone the match for an indefinite period, the ministry of immigration informed us it would not allow the team from Sierra Leone to enter the Seychelles," Chetty said. "Subsequently, the SFF felt it was prudent to forfeit the scheduled match as opposed to asking for a postponement. "We respect the decisions taken by the authorities to safeguard the health interests of our country. "Our thoughts are with the Sierra Leone people in their hour of need." There have been more than 1,300 confirmed or suspected Ebola cases in West Africa since March, when cases of the virus were first reported in Guinea. Other countries to be affected include Liberia and Nigeria. Sierra Leone president Ernest Bai Koroma has declared a public health emergency in his country in an attempt to stem the spread of the virus. One of the country's athletes at the Commonwealth Games in Scotland was taken to hospital last week to be tested for Ebola after feeling unwell. However, cyclist Moses Sesay was cleared and was able to compete in Thursday's men's individual time trial. Ebola is a viral hemorrhagic fever, affecting multiple organs and accompanied by bleeding. There is no known cure or specific treatments. The World Health Organization has said that drastic action is needed to contain what has fast become the worst outbreak on record.


Max for #3 is sample: 659 with 0.9595329059985429
text: Athens, Greece (CNN) -- Greek police have arrested the captain of a U.S. ship whose passengers and crew had hoped to help lead a Gaza-bound flotilla aimed at challenging Israel's maritime blockade of the Palestinian territory. John Klusmire, an American citizen and captain of The Audacity of Hope, was asked to report to a police station Saturday morning, said Jane Hirschmann, an American who is one of the flotilla organizers. A spokesperson with the Greek Coast Guard, who was not named per custom, confirmed Klusmire's arrest. The reason given was that he had left the mainland without permission and put passengers in danger. He will appear before Greek prosecutors on Tuesday. Hirschmann added that, in addition to disobeying a police order, Klusmire is being charged with disturbing sea traffic. "This is intimidation," she said. "They're making an example of our captain to stop other boats in the flotilla from trying to sail." His vessel -- which carried 36 American passengers, four crew members and several journalists, including CNN reporter Phil Black -- was intercepted Friday by a Greek Coast Guard patrol vessel roughly 10 minutes after it had departed Perama. The Greek authorities were in a standoff with the crew for about three hours, during which activists sang, chanted and waved signs in support of their mission. The ordeal took a turn, however, when an inflatable boat carrying an armed Greek military commando team told the activists to follow them back to port or face being boarded. Eventually, the ship returned to Greece, where it is now tied up at a Greek naval facility. Four other crew members have been ordered by Greek authorities to stay aboard the ship, Hirschmann said. Many other activist passengers have remained on the vessel as well, in a show of solidarity. The Audacity of Hope is one of 10 ships that organizers hope to unite to form a flotilla heading toward the Middle East. The trip is partially meant to commemorate a May 2010 incident in which Israeli troops boarded Mavi Marmara, a Turkish ship filled with humanitarian aid and 700 activists from various countries. Nine people died in subsequent clashes with Israeli Navy commandos. The Greek government said Friday that it won't allow any of the nine other boats in the flotilla to sail to Gaza because their mission is too dangerous. Flotilla members accuse the Greek government of buckling to pressure from Israel's government. For their part, the Israelis have said they are mounting a diplomatic offensive to try to stop the flotilla from setting sail at all. On Tuesday, the Israeli government said flotilla participants had threatened to kill Israeli military personnel should their boats be boarded. They alleged that the participants were stockpiling sacks of sulfuric acid on boats to be used in the event of any attacks on Israeli commandos. Flotilla organizer Medea Benjamin dismissed the allegations as ludicrous, saying: "They see this nonviolent, rag-tag group of ships as such a threat they're using their entire propaganda apparatus, and their diplomatic and economic clout to try to stop 300 peace activists. It's pathetic." The Middle East Quartet -- composed of officials from the United States, United Nations, European Union and Russia -- on Saturday issued a joint statement asking "all governments concerned to use their influence to discourage additional flotillas, which risk the safety of their participants and carry the potential for escalation." The Quartet added in its statement that it "strongly urges all those wishing to deliver goods to the people of Gaza to do so through established channels, so that their cargo can be inspected and transferred via established land crossings." Doing so, the group contends, is the best way to both help Palestinians and address Israel's "legitimate security concerns." Journalist Elinda Labropoulou contributed to this report.


Max for #4 is sample: 705 with 0.9553339909982941
text: (CNN) -- A wildfire that has raged for days in Michigan's Upper Peninsula has destroyed 97 structures -- including a motel, a store and 34 homes. The Duck Lake Fire has burned more than 22,000 acres and is still going despite recent rains, the Michigan Department of Natural Resources reported on its website. The state agency estimated Monday the blaze is about 51% contained, thanks to progress made by firefighters in maintaining a firm perimeter. Crews have about 40 miles of firelines set up to control the situation, including 6 miles along the shore of Lake Superior. But a lack of roads in the area has complicated efforts. The fire's south end is about 14 miles north of Newberry and 7 miles west of the Yahquamenon Falls State Park campgrounds. Lightning sparked the wildfire late Wednesday afternoon, leaving firefighters little time to contain it before dark. The flames picked up significantly the next day, fanned by strong winds and high temperatures. Since then, the wildfire has taken its toll. While noting that the entire affected area has not been surveyed, the state department said at least 97 structures on 39 different properties have been "lost" due to the blaze. Dry conditions have exacerbated the fire danger throughout the region. On Friday, Gov. Rick Snyder banned outdoor burning in 49 counties in northern Michigan in hopes of preventing wildfires.


