Athens, Greece (CNN) -- Greek police have arrested the captain of a U.S. ship whose passengers and crew had hoped to help lead a Gaza-bound flotilla aimed at challenging Israel's maritime blockade of the Palestinian territory. John Klusmire, an American citizen and captain of The Audacity of Hope, was asked to report to a police station Saturday morning, said Jane Hirschmann, an American who is one of the flotilla organizers. A spokesperson with the Greek Coast Guard, who was not named per custom, confirmed Klusmire's arrest. The reason given was that he had left the mainland without permission and put passengers in danger. He will appear before Greek prosecutors on Tuesday. Hirschmann added that, in addition to disobeying a police order, Klusmire is being charged with disturbing sea traffic. "This is intimidation," she said. "They're making an example of our captain to stop other boats in the flotilla from trying to sail." His vessel -- which carried 36 American passengers, four crew members and several journalists, including CNN reporter Phil Black -- was intercepted Friday by a Greek Coast Guard patrol vessel roughly 10 minutes after it had departed Perama. The Greek authorities were in a standoff with the crew for about three hours, during which activists sang, chanted and waved signs in support of their mission. The ordeal took a turn, however, when an inflatable boat carrying an armed Greek military commando team told the activists to follow them back to port or face being boarded. Eventually, the ship returned to Greece, where it is now tied up at a Greek naval facility. Four other crew members have been ordered by Greek authorities to stay aboard the ship, Hirschmann said. Many other activist passengers have remained on the vessel as well, in a show of solidarity. The Audacity of Hope is one of 10 ships that organizers hope to unite to form a flotilla heading toward the Middle East. The trip is partially meant to commemorate a May 2010 incident in which Israeli troops boarded Mavi Marmara, a Turkish ship filled with humanitarian aid and 700 activists from various countries. Nine people died in subsequent clashes with Israeli Navy commandos. The Greek government said Friday that it won't allow any of the nine other boats in the flotilla to sail to Gaza because their mission is too dangerous. Flotilla members accuse the Greek government of buckling to pressure from Israel's government. For their part, the Israelis have said they are mounting a diplomatic offensive to try to stop the flotilla from setting sail at all. On Tuesday, the Israeli government said flotilla participants had threatened to kill Israeli military personnel should their boats be boarded. They alleged that the participants were stockpiling sacks of sulfuric acid on boats to be used in the event of any attacks on Israeli commandos. Flotilla organizer Medea Benjamin dismissed the allegations as ludicrous, saying: "They see this nonviolent, rag-tag group of ships as such a threat they're using their entire propaganda apparatus, and their diplomatic and economic clout to try to stop 300 peace activists. It's pathetic." The Middle East Quartet -- composed of officials from the United States, United Nations, European Union and Russia -- on Saturday issued a joint statement asking "all governments concerned to use their influence to discourage additional flotillas, which risk the safety of their participants and carry the potential for escalation." The Quartet added in its statement that it "strongly urges all those wishing to deliver goods to the people of Gaza to do so through established channels, so that their cargo can be inspected and transferred via established land crossings." Doing so, the group contends, is the best way to both help Palestinians and address Israel's "legitimate security concerns." Journalist Elinda Labropoulou contributed to this report.
Bogota, Colombia (CNN) -- Colombian rebels and the government are in "exploratory" talks to end the country's nearly 50-year armed conflict, President Juan Manuel Santos said Monday. Speaking on national TV, the president said military operations would continue alongside any negotiations with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, commonly known as the FARC. The FARC, which has been at war with the Colombian government since the 1960s, is Latin America's oldest insurgency. "We have developed exploratory talks with the FARC to seek an end to the conflict," said Santos, whose popularity has suffered because of the widespread perception that security has worsened under his leadership. He vowed to avoid the mistakes of the past. "Colombians can rest assured that the government is acting with prudence, seriousness and firmness -- always putting first the welfare and peace of all residents," the president said. Santos invited members of a second rebel group -- the National Liberation Army, or ELN -- to also join in the talks. Earlier, current and former government sources told CNN that the government and rebels met in Cuba to discuss the possibility of peace. Present at the discussions, the sources said, were members of the FARC and representatives of Santos. The sources asked to remain anonymous because they were not authorized to discuss the matter with media. Previously on CNN.com: Indigenous groups clash with Colombian soldiers . The Venezuelan government was reportedly key to bringing the two sides together, the sources said. Peace talks between the rebels and the government have occurred sporadically since the 1980s. The last attempt fell apart in 2002. Then-President Andres Pastrana ended negotiations after rebels launched a series of attacks across the country, in an apparent bid to strengthen their position. Since then, the sides have reached a kind of "hurting stalemate," said Adam Isacson, senior associate at the Washington Office on Latin America. Though severely weakened in recent years, the FARC continues to carry out kidnappings and attack security forces. "Neither side thinks they're going to win anytime soon," said Isacson. "What they're looking at is losing thousands more people, with nothing to show for it." Of course, it remains unclear whether the two sides will reach an agreement at all, and if they do, what that deal might look like. It's also unclear how much of the FARC the group's leadership would be able to deliver, said Isacson. The FARC opened the door for talks this year. In a January statement, rebels said they would be interested in addressing certain issues at a "hypothetical negotiating table," calling on the government to address such subjects as privatization, deregulation and environmental degradation. The statement was signed by the FARC's leader, known as Timoleon Jimenez. "This conflict will have no solution until our voices are heard. Without lies, Santos, without lies," the statement read. This spring, the FARC freed the last of 10 government hostages after holding them for more than a decade. In February, the rebel group said it would also stop kidnapping civilians for money. It did not address the fate of its civilian captives, nor did the group renounce kidnapping for political purposes. Hundreds of civilians remain prisoners of the guerrilla group throughout Colombia, according to the nonprofit Free Country Foundation. The United States and European Union consider the FARC a terrorist organization. Boos greet Colombian president in FARC area . CNN's Dana Ford, Marilia Brocchetto and journalist Fernando Ramos contributed to this report.
