LONDON, England (CNN) -- The Screening Room went to the Theatre Royal in Drury Lane in the heart of London's West End, where a spectacular musical version of "The Lord of The Rings" is enjoying a successful run, to meet Indian composer A. R. Rahman, whose blend of Asian culture with rock and Western classical styles has revolutionized the Indian film industry. And now Rahman is about to make his mark in Hollywood. A. R. Rahman, interviewed by CNN's Screening Room . Virtually unknown in Europe and the U.S., Rahman has sold 200 million albums worldwide -- more than the Beatles -- and is worshipped throughout much of Asia, where he's known as the Mozart of Madras. Now he has added a Hollywood film score to his vast repertoire of movie music. Rahman explained to CNN what he thinks makes great movie music. "A great soundtrack is like 'Laura"s theme', the 'Love Story' theme, 'Chariots of Fire' and all those sorts of things, where it stood by itself," he said. But recently, he's noticed a changing mood. "Now it is becoming too abstract and more ambient and more... I don't know, soundscape-ish, more than melody. People are afraid of melody: 'Oh, that melody is distracting my scene,' it is becoming like that." And that brings fresh challenges for the makers of film music. "Now the challenges of the composer are much more," he told CNN. "One needs to know of recording, production, it is not enough to compose a great theme and [know] how it can intertwine with the movie. And with Indian film it is an even greater challenge, because we need to be like Michael Jackson, John Williams, Hans Zimmer and an Indian folk composer all put together. So they expect finesse and they expect versatility." Rahman's compositions are versatile enough to be used by both Bollywood and Hollywood, a case in point being his music for the Hindi film "Dil Se," which was used almost a decade later by Spike Lee for "Inside Man." But for Rahman, the process to create film music is being challenged by increasingly crammed movie schedules. "There used to be a time where the director and the composer would work together," he explained. "They would develop themes and the director would shoot a scene, but now the world's so fast that people are finishing the movie even before going to a composer." As well as writing songs and scores, Rahman has featured in many Bollywood films singing the songs which are mimed by the acting superstars. He recently completed a sell-out tour of the U.S. performing highlights from his songbook to devoted fans. He explained to CNN how playback singing is a normal part of Indian film music. "Well, until I worked in 'Bombay Dreams' six or seven years back, I never realized that it is not cool to have playback singing. Until then, it was the story of Indian films where somebody else lip synchs and somebody else sings." And Rahman has been converted to the Western model, where those singing on-screen usually provide the vocals themselves. "In my future projects I would rather have a star who sings," he said. Director Shekhar Kapur recruited Rahman and fellow composer Craig Armstrong to provide the score for Cate Blanchett's sequel to "Elizabeth," "The Golden Age," which premieres at Toronto Film Festival in September this year. Kapur described the thrill of working with two such different -- and complementary -- composers. He told CNN, "Here are two totally different cultures. Craig Armstrong is strings and heart, the skies, choir, angels and devils, and A. r. is modern, restless music." "Just to get them together was very interesting for me. To sit there and see both of them jamming together, that was fascinating. They wouldn't talk, they would jam, and out of the jamming came the music. It was great." Rahman is still getting used to his new-found status as darling of both East and West -- and it leads to a somewhat chaotic lifestyle, as he explained. "It is terrifying sometimes. I suddenly wake up in Scotland doing music for 'Golden Age,' and suddenly wake up doing an Indian superstar film, but I think after all these years I am probably getting a balance." E-mail to a friend .
(CNN) -- Hate to stand in long lines on Black Friday? After getting your fill of Thanksgiving turkey, go online instead. Cyber Monday, December 2, isn't just for toys and electronics. You can also find great travel deals you can book as gifts for the intrepid jet-setter on your list, or for your wanderlust self. Here is a sampling of travel deals from the sun-drenched beaches of the Caribbean and Florida, the white-frosted slopes of Colorado, cosmopolitan New York and Boston and Europe's rails -- and lots more. Note that some offerings have blackout dates and are for limited time only. So remember, the early bird gobbles up the deals; you can start shopping at the stroke of midnight on December 2 in most cases. Schuss the slopes . Hotel Jerome in the heart of Aspen, Colorado, is offering 30% off room rates; three-night minimum required, fully prepaid and nonrefundable. Valid travel dates are through the end of ski season (blackout dates apply). Philadelphia story . Book one of the renovated business class rooms in the Radisson Blu Warwick Hotel and pay $19.26, in honor of the year the historic hotel opened. Valid travel dates are December 2, 2013, through February 28, 2014 (based upon availability, blackout dates, other conditions apply). Across the pond . Rail Europe is offering its first Cyber Monday promo (which extends to December 6) offering $100 off Global and Select Eurail passes. Valid travel dates are December 2, 2013, through March 31, 2014. Visit the rail website and enter coupon code CYBER2013. Shelling out less in Florida . Book three or more consecutive nights at Captiva Island's South Seas Island Resort on Cyber Monday and receive 25% off the best available rate. Valid travel dates are December 2, 2014, through March 21, 2014 (subject to blackout dates, certain accommodation types). Book it via Facebook at www.facebook.com/southseasresortvillage or Twitter @SSIslandResort. Warm weather paradise . The deal in Aruba: The beachfront Hyatt Regency Aruba Resort Spa and Casino is offering a gimmicky 12/2/2013-themed promo that features 20% off a deluxe room, a $12.02 daily cocktail credit at Piet's Pier Bar, and a $20.13 daily credit at ZoiA Spa. Valid travel dates are May, June, September, October and November, 2014. Book it on Cyber Monday, from 12:02 a.m. to 8:13 p.m. (20:13), via the website or call 011-297-586-1234. The deal in Tortola: Book the spacious, private Cielo Villa on Tortola for a week's stay and get 20% off rates that begin at $390 per night. Valid travel dates are December 15, 2013, to December 15, 2014. Book it on Cyber Monday, from 6 a.m. to midnight, visit www.vrbo.com and enter property #272558 or call 978-462-7091. The deal on Paradise Island: Beginning Black Friday through Cyber Monday, book a minimum two nights in a Beach Tower room at family-friendly Atlantis Resort on Paradise Island for $99 per night. Bonus: Rates are refundable. Valid travel dates are August 24, 2014, to October 29, 2014, and November 30, 2014, to December 25, 2014. (Deals for other travel dates are also offered, blackout dates and other terms apply.) Empire state of mind . The deal on Madison: Madison Avenue's historic Roosevelt Hotel is offering a two-hour Flash Sale on Cyber Monday offering 50% off best available rates for select rooms. Valid travel dates are January 3, 2014, to March 31, 2014. Book it at https://www.reservations-page.com/C00268/H01416/be.ashx?pc=CY50 between 10 a.m. and noon (EST) and enter rate code CY50. (Bookings must be prepaid, are nonrefundable, and subject to availability and blackout dates.) The deal in the Village: Great Gatsby-inspired Jade Hotel in Greenwich Village is offering a 1920's-themed package that includes a $192 room rate, lunch at Grape & Vine for $19.20 and two 1920's theme cocktails. Valid travel dates are January and February, 2014. Book it on Cyber Monday between midnight and 7:20 p.m. (19:20). Budget bonus . The economy lodging chain Red Roof Inns is featuring up to 30% off room rates on properties nationwide (discounts vary according to property, subject to blackout dates). Valid travel dates are December 3 through February 28, 2014. Book by visiting the hotel website and use VP code 616892 or call 800-RED-ROOF. California surfin' the Web . The deal in Beverly Hills: A credit card-throw from LA's Rodeo Drive, the Montage Beverly Hills is offering 40% off best available room rates and a complimentary bottle of champagne upon arrival (excluding packages and previously booked rooms). Valid travel dates are December 2, 2013, through February 28, 2014 (blackout dates December 21 to 31, 2013, and January weekends). The deal in Berkeley: Book any room category and receive 40% off the best available rate at the historic Claremont Hotel, Club & Spa in Berkeley. Valid travel dates are December 2, 2013, through April 30, 2014 (based upon availability, blackout dates apply). Book it at the hotel website using promo code CYBER. Don't leave home until you book it . American Express is offering its first Cyber Monday deal, a 72-hour promo at participating hotels throughout the USA and Canada, for limited post-holiday travel. Valid travel dates are January 13, 2014, to January 31, 2014. The 72-hour promotion begins on Cyber Monday at www.amextravel.com. Red Sox nation . The deal in Cape Cod: Cape Cod's beachfront Sea Crest Beach Hotel is offering up to 30% off room rates for three nights or more and 20% off one- or two-night stays. Valid travel dates are December 6, 2013, to June 16, 2014 (blackout dates and certain terms may apply). Visit the website at midnight on Black Friday through Cyber Monday. The deal in Boston's Back Bay: Stay two nights and get 10% off the best available rate per night and upgrade upon arrival at handsome Fifteen Beacon hotel in Boston's Back Bay. Valid travel dates are December 2, 2013, through March 31, 2014. Book it Cyber Monday by visiting the website or call 617-670-1500. The deal in Boston's Faneuil Hall: The Bostonian Millennium, across from Faneuil Hall, is offering a $129 room rate for Friday and Sunday nights and a 30% discount off best available rates other nights. The deal begins Black Friday and runs through Cyber Monday. Valid travel dates are November 29, 2013, through March 2014. Book It by visiting the website and use code CYBERM. How about a Saturday sale? South Carolina beach destination Myrtle Beach is launching Travel Saturday, a one-day cybertravel shopping event on November 30. "We're looking forward to seeing how consumers react to having the chance to purchase heavily discounted travel deals while they're still surrounded by family and could be setting the dates for their 2014 travel plans," said Susan Phillips, director of marketing for the Myrtle Beach Area Chamber of Commerce/CVB. Discounts include 35% off room rates during the peak summer months and perks like free rounds of golf and 50% off tickets to attractions like Ripley's Aquarium. Visit www.VisitMyrtleBeach.com/TravelSaturday.
LONDON, England (CNN) -- Getting "out of this world" with civilian space travel is not quite as simple as you may think. Ready for launch: video game programmer Richard Garriott shown in training for his space flight in October. Aside from the obvious financial limitations which restrict space tourism to the rich and the ridiculously rich, there are also significant training programs and testing to be completed before proceeding to lift-off. To gain a better insight into this training, well-known video game programmer and designer Richard Garriott, who is preparing for his own space adventure in October, is detailing in a blog what he and others have to go through in order to make it into orbit as a space traveler. Garriott has been in training since the beginning of the year and told CNN the first major thing to surprise him was the intensity of preparations. "When I first came here in January, I thought nine months to get trained for this is going to be plenty of time. Of course, very quickly, I realized that I had signed up for a very complex task, something much more difficult that I had anticipated. I immediately knew that nine months was going to be a lot of work to get everything prepared for the flight. "And now that I am so close to the flight, I am still feeling the pressure, I definitively have been working very long days and most nights," Garriott said. The training regime has three major strands: physical training, which includes preparation to acclimatize to the space environment; practical training for day-to-day living in space; and like any flight, be it 10 minutes or 10 days, training in safety procedures for emergency situations. Trainees generally spend nine months or more on and off-site to complete the requirements, which include everything from flight simulations to learning how to use the toilet. Eric Anderson, president and CEO of Space Adventures, the company sending Garriott into space, told CNN the training program is extensive, but does not exclude people from making the flight. "Their total training program is a few months, but we tend to spread it out so they can fit it around their normal lives. They are not training to the same degree as the professionals." As long as space hopefuls are in reasonable health, they can usually go ahead with their adventure, he said. "There's some fitness involved. There are certainly [medical] things that are not allowable in space, but they are generally more serious conditions." He said the major fitness issue with space travel was preparing for the change in "Gs." "The body is designed to live on one 'G,' so when you expose it to higher 'Gs' it has an effect. With the training and given the [short] length of the visits there's a minimal effect on the body." In his blog on the training process, Garriott said one part of the training was indisputably the worst. "Hardest of all was the 'Spinning Chair of Ultimate Sickness.' I can't imagine that I will ever again voluntarily sit in a device designed to make you sick, or ride it as long as I can. Ugh, this is definitely my least favorite part of training!" Despite such disturbing preparations, Anderson said much of the training, which takes place at Space Adventures' base in Star City, Russia, is centered upon general living in space. "There's a few requirements about what you need to know to live in the space station ... how to eat, how to drink, and how to use the restroom, for example," he said. "There's also a lot of simulation you go through ... there's preparation to acclimatize you to the space environment." Garriott said many of the procedures for living in space, or for emergencies, are very complex. "There are a lot of technical details behind all the different systems we need to understand ... fire detection and alarms, plus procedures and equipment for dealing with fire emergencies; protective breathing apparatus in case of chamber decompression or malfunction; the toilet (everybody's favorite piece of space trivia!), including powering up the can for suction and waste removal; and lastly, onboard water sources." He admits the learning requirements had him preparing for exams by "cramming like any good college kid." And the most fascinating part of the training? In Garriott's opinion, it was running in a hypobaric chamber, where the altitude was set at 10,000 meters (about 2,000 meters higher than Mount Everest). "I felt no physical or mental problems, but I did notice an odd physiological issue that is quite hard to describe. Basically, it was possible to make a tennis ball-sized pocket in my mouth, but one which had no air in it as it was just a vacuum! "By that I mean try to imagine creating a cavity inside your mouth without any air bubbles and by letting in no air through your lips or throat -- it's basically impossible at sea level because the air pressure outside your mouth pushes the air pocket closed," he said. "However, at 10,000 meters the air is so much thinner that you can pull off this oral stunt without a hitch! Weird." It truly is.

