(CNN) -- A wildfire that has raged for days in Michigan's Upper Peninsula has destroyed 97 structures -- including a motel, a store and 34 homes. The Duck Lake Fire has burned more than 22,000 acres and is still going despite recent rains, the Michigan Department of Natural Resources reported on its website. The state agency estimated Monday the blaze is about 51% contained, thanks to progress made by firefighters in maintaining a firm perimeter. Crews have about 40 miles of firelines set up to control the situation, including 6 miles along the shore of Lake Superior. But a lack of roads in the area has complicated efforts. The fire's south end is about 14 miles north of Newberry and 7 miles west of the Yahquamenon Falls State Park campgrounds. Lightning sparked the wildfire late Wednesday afternoon, leaving firefighters little time to contain it before dark. The flames picked up significantly the next day, fanned by strong winds and high temperatures. Since then, the wildfire has taken its toll. While noting that the entire affected area has not been surveyed, the state department said at least 97 structures on 39 different properties have been "lost" due to the blaze. Dry conditions have exacerbated the fire danger throughout the region. On Friday, Gov. Rick Snyder banned outdoor burning in 49 counties in northern Michigan in hopes of preventing wildfires.
(CNN) -- One of the UK's most critically endangered butterflies is making a comeback thanks to a profit making partnership between private landowners and conservation organizations. The heath fritillary -- a rare species exclusive to the south of England that thrives in cleared woodland environments -- has declined sharply over the past 25 years as forest clearing has become less common. But population numbers are on the rise again after the introduction of a forestry management scheme that enables rural landowners to cash in by creating butterfly habitats on their property. "We were down to 12 colonies (of heath fritillary) in 1995 and most of those were very small," says Dr. Martin Warren, chief executive of Butterfly Conservation, the organization behind the projects implementation. "Since then we've been able to work with landowners to get the management back up again and we are now looking at 25 colonies in the same area." See also: Butterfly farmers help protect threatened forests . The conservation scheme works by first sourcing locations where there are remnants of heath fritillary colonies. Those who own the land identified during this process -- be they individuals, businesses or wildlife trusts -- are then approached for permission to carry out the conservation work. This primarily consists of clearing the areas pinpointed of their indigenous plant life and repopulating them with the lighter foliage the heath fritillary requires to prosper. If landowners agree to take part in the project, they are then able to sell on the discarded lumber that accumulates during the clearing and ensuing maintenance process at a profit. See also: Brazil tries to balance farming and forests . "A lot of this is about persuasion," says Warren. "You have to deal with loads of different people who all have their own agenda and financial constraints." "When you go in there and say 'there is a rare butterfly on your land' you can sometimes get a very bad response," he adds. Although Warren admits the profit margins remain relatively small at this stage and that the scheme itself relies on grants from the Forestry Commission to break even, he sees potential for much larger projects in the future. He says that there are currently numerous sites throughout the UK -- where nearly three quarters of butterfly species have seen their numbers decline in the last 10 years -- being scouted for their suitability by Butterfly Conservation. There are also scores of endangered butterfly species across Europe that could benefit from the implementation of similar cleared woodland schemes, he adds. See also: Can wooden skyscrapers transform concrete jungle? "There are a whole suite of them (countries) where woodlands are not being managed to the detriment of butterflies," says Warren. Yet despite his enthusiasm for the project, Warren cautions that there must be a balance struck between maintaining natural forest environments and manipulating their makeup through woodland clearing. "We wouldn't advocate every woodland area be managed as there are many other species that depend on mature woodland to thrive," he says. If an equilibrium between profit, species conservation and respecting natural forest ecosystems can be achieved however, all kinds of diverse forest wildlife could benefit, he adds.
